# PolyConf example scripts

This folder contains several example scripts demonstrating the use of *PolyConf*.  All the files you need to run these examples are contained within this folder.

For detailed documentation of all *PolyConf* methods, please refer to the [PolyConstruct ReadTheDocs](https://polyconstruct.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

These tutorials are not intended as a primer on polymer design or stereochemistry.  It is assumed that the reader is familiar polymer [tacticity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacticity), and common types of [copolymers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copolymer).

## Tutorial 01:  Building a linear polyethyleneimine polymer conformation using PolyConf

The first tutorial is an example of how to make a linear 128 unit polyethyleneimine chain using *PolyConf*. 

This tutorial showcases several approaches, including:

* building a polymer chain with `extend()`
* two strategies for building a pseudo-linear polymer chain using `extend()`
* using `dihedral_solver()` to adjust the polyethyleneimine conformation
* using `shuffler()` and `dihedral_solver()` to generate a random polyethyleneimine conformation

This tutorial is contained in a series of scripts.  There are detailed comments discussing the strategies used, and the limitations of the resulting conformations.  You are encouraged to examine the conformations generated by this script in [VMD](https://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/), or another visualization tool of your choice, to understand the strengths and limitations of the different strategies.

### Building a simple linear polymer

`01a_build_PEI_with_extend.py` shows an example of building a polyethyleneimine 128-mer using extend, sand saving the resulting conformation.

### Building a simple linear polymer fit to a linear vector `extend(linearise=True)`

`01b_build_PEI_with_linear_extend.py` shows an example of building a polyethyleneimine 128-mer where the monomers are extended along a specified vector, and showcases the strengths and weaknesses of this approach

### Solving a polymer conformation

`01c_build_PEI_then_solve.py` shows how to use `dihedral_solver()` to convert the conformation from tutorial 01a into one that is more physically reasonable.

### Generating a random polymer conformation

`01d_build_PEI_conformation.py` shows how to use `shuffler()` and `dihedral_solver()` to convert the highly ordered conformation from tutorial 01a into a random coil that is still physically reasonable.

### Generating an ensemble of random polymer conformation

`01e_build_PEI_conformation_ensemble.py` shows how to use the methods from tutorial 01d to generate an ensemble of physically reasonable polymer conformations for replicate molecular dynamics simulations.

## Tutorial 02:  Strategies for building conformations of polymers with different types of tacticity, or copolymers with different monomer distributions

The second tutorial shows strategies for making polymers with different types of [tacticity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacticity).  Using [poly(methyl methacrylate)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poly(methyl_methacrylate)) as an example, this lesson showcases a strategy for making an isotactic polymer, a syndiotactic polymer, and an atactic polymer.  These strategies use two monomers, `MMAD_bonds.pdb` and `MMAL_bonds.pdb`.  

In these examples, the two monomers are enantiomers.  However, these strategies are also applicable to the creation of [copolymers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copolymer), where the monomers are chemically distinct.

This tutorial is split into four scripts.  Each script includes detailed comments regarding the strategy used.  After you read and execute each script, you should take a moment to examine the generated conformations in VMD, or another visualization tool of your choice.

### Building an isotactic PMMA polymer

`02a_build_PMMA_isotactic.py` shows a strategy for building an [isotactic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacticity#Isotactic_polymers) PMMA polymer, in which all monomers have the same tacticity.  The method is very similar to the approach used in tutorial 01.

### Building a sydniotactic PMMA polymer

`02b_build_PMMA_syndiotactic.py` shows a strategy for building a [syndiotactic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacticity#Syndiotactic_polymers) PMMA polymer, where monomers alternate between two different enantiomers.  

This strategy could be adapted to make an [alternating copolymer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copolymer#Alternating_copolymers).

### Failing to build an atactic PMMA polymer

`02c_build_PMMA_atactic.py` shows how to build an [atactic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacticity#Atactic_polymers) PMMA polymer, with tacticity of the monomers distributed randomly along the chain.  

This approach could also be adapted to generate a [statistical copolymer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copolymer#Statistical_copolymers).

The script for this part of the tutorial **will fail!** This is intentional.  We have chosen a specific random seed that will reliably fail to generate a valid starting conformations, in order to showcase some of the challenges in generating polymers where monomers are arranged in a random or stochastic order.

There is a discussion at the end of this script, which contain several suggestions for addressing these challenges.  You should try implementing those strategies until you can successfully generate a valid starting conformation for atactic PMMA.

### Building an ensemble of starting conformations for an atactic PMMA polymer, using `extend()` with `linearise=True`

`02d_build_PMMA_atactic_with_linear_extend.py` showcases one solution to generate an ensemble of starting conformations for an atactic PMMA polymer.

This example is one solution to resolve the difficulties showcased in `02c_build_PMMA_atactic.py`.  This strategy uses  `extend()` with `linearise=True` to produce a pseudo-linear conformation.   It then applies `shuffler()` and `dihedral_solver()` to generate an ensemble of five starting conformations for use in replicate molecular dynamics simulations.  

Again, this type of approach could also be used to generate a [statistical copolymer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copolymer#Statistical_copolymers).

## Tutorial 03:  Building a regularly branched polyethyleneimine polymer conformation using PolyConf

This tutorial showcases how to generate a starting conformation for a branched polyethyleneimine chain with regularly spaced branches. It is contained in the script `03_build_branched_PEI.py`

First, the script generates a linear polyethyleneimine 128-mer
Then, the linear 128-mer is extended by adding 3mer branches on every 5th monomer

Finally, a set of random conformations are generated.  This process includes a demostration of how to manually generate a list of dihedrals.
  
## Tutorial 04:  Building a hyperbranched polyethyleneimine polymer conformation with random branchpoints

This tutorial showcases how to generate a starting conformation for a branched polyethyleneimine chain with randomly spaced branches. It is contained in the script `04_build_randomly_branched_PEI.py`

First, the script generates a linear polyethyleneimine 128-mer
Then, the linear 128-mer is extended by adding 5mer branches on ten randomly selected monomers.

The method used demonstrates random branch sites, and hyperbranching.  Branches can extend off of the original 128mer, but they can also extend of of other branches.

Finally, a set of random conformations are generated.  